joined Now by military analyst Frank
ledwich he joins us from Oxford in the
UK Frank the Israeli Army says its
ground forces and jets carried out a
targeted raid in central Gaza Strip uh
can this be seen as an overt to the
expected land
Invasion good morning Terry yes in a
sense I mean what we're seeing now is
quite normal in operations like this we
saw this in Iraq with the Americans and
the British they're called bearing the
purpose reconnaissance is in force area
reconnaissance but the purpose is
essentially to test the defenses give
the troops some experience try and
understand and and most importantly try
and understand the kind of resistance
that they may face not only from Hamas
but also from mines and other prepared
obstacles near the border none of them
have gone in very deeply but I think as
as time goes on we're going to see more
of these and some of them may penetrate
a little more deeply than the one or two
kilometers we've seen so far uh yes the
the second thing is that they are uh
messages to the Israeli public and we
saw from Tanya's report there that the
kind of message they're trying to convey
the Army is is in action it's doing
things uh and uh as I said we'll see
more now reports are also coming in
Frank of uh US air strikes against
several Targets in Syria how does that
fit into the bigger picture of this
conflict yes the uh Western commanders
from from what I've I've I've been
hearing are extremely worried about this
now the raids into Syria by the US the
Air Raids have been essentially in
response to Iranian attacks on US forces
in Iraq and Syria themselves so we're
seeing a measured and calibrated
proportional response from the Americans
we're not seeing any escalation but uh
this is messaging to Iran that uh the
Americans won't take these actions
against their troops in Iraq or Syria
likly but also to demonstrate capability
and the Iranians that there's a very
large American Force ready to take
action should it be
required those strikes in Syria also
raised the Spectre of the possibility of
a wider War there have been reports
Frank of an explosion near Israel's
Southern border with Egypt uh Israel is
exchanging daily fire with Hezbollah at
its northern border with Lebanon could
this become a multi-front
war very much so I think the the taba
incident the one to the to the south of
Gaza I think analysts in Israel
suggesting that that that in fact came
from Yemen the Americans shot down some
drones from Yemen last week and I think
this one may have been may have fallen
short of its Target in Israel but more
widely yes and the the action that will
detonate ESC wider escalation will be a
decision by Hezbollah to to engage its
rocket forces and I think everybody's
key that doesn't happen right now though
the Israelis and Hezbollah are are are
maintaining a fairly low level of of
combat but if we see that intensify
it'll be very serious not only for
Lebanon itself for which it would be
devastating ultimately but for the wider
region Frank I want to get back to the
idea of this looming ground operation
that Israel says it is planning to carry
out uh we have Israeli troops massed on
the border they are ready to enter Gaza
what will happen once that begins if it
begins
Frank well H are playing a very cool
game with the the hostages extending the
the Strategic or narrowing in fact the
Strategic space for the Israelis but I
think many many people now looking at
this are thinking that the form this
incursion or Invasion or assault may
take may not be a very a single large
assault but may comprise a number of of
of raids in force and
extractions we don't know it'll
certainly occur but the Americans are
particularly advising the Israelis do
not go in force with the purpose of
occupation what we would prefer to see
is to treat this as a series of
operations rather than one single
operation it does appear that that's the
way the Israelis are beginning to look
at things Frank we really appreciate
your analysis that was military analyst
Frank
ledwitch thank you
Terry